---ERIC---

Hi. We are involved in a project, me and my tandem collegue Massimiliano,
about supersimmetry and supersimmetry particles. Our goal is to perform a
data analysis which benefits the signal with respect to the background as
well as the sensitivity, defined as the Signal divided for signal plus
background events. Our signal is the production of two supersimmetry particles,
a chargino and a neutralino, from the hard scattering collision of two protons,
in association with a Higgs boson and missing transverse momentum at the centre
of mass energy of 13 Teraelectronvolt, recorded with the ATLAS detector.

Since the Large Hadron Collider has this large energy in the center of mass it can
produce very heavy particles like the weakly interacting supersymmetric ones. These
 particles are very interesting for several reasons and, if discovered, they could
solve a series of problems left open by the Standard Model. Through chargino and
neutralino data, we want to estimate the background and look for rare events.

In the SUSY scenario, the lightest of the neutralinos together with the charginos,
represent the mass eigenstates formed from the mixture of the electroweak and Higgs
 bosons’ gauge eigenstate superpartners. The way of decay of the the W and H
boson determines the so called hadronic or leptonic channel. Chargino load interacts
 exactly like a loaded W, while neutralizing as a zeta or higgs SM. We can distinguish
between four independent and mutually exclusive analysis channels based on the
visible final state. These are the feynmann diagrams of the processes.

-The first one is called 0 leptons two bottom quark-antiquark pairs, characterized
by the presence of the hadronic decays of both the W and H.  
It is the fully hadronic analysis channel and exploits the large branching ratios
for both the W and H bosons. Particular event selections based on the masses of
both the W and Higgs boson candidates, the presence of exactly two b-jets, and
the kinematic requests are required in order to reduce the
significant backgrounds processes.  
-The second channel is called 1 lepton bottom quark-antiquark and it is characterized
 by the hadronic decay of the Higgs boson and the leptonic decay of the W boson. The events
considered in the one lepton and two b-jets channel are also recorded with a
missing energy trigger. Events with exactly one electron or muon are selected  if they
also contain two or three jets with pT > 25 GeV, two of which must be b-tagged.  
-Another channel is the 1lepton diphoton channel with the leptonic decay of the W and the
 Higgs boson decay into two photons; Events are selected using a diphoton trigger and
missing transverse energy requested to be > 35 GeV and ET > 25 GeV for the leading and
 sub-leading photons, respectively. For these events, the event selection requires
exactly one lepton (e or μ) with pT > 25 GeV.
 -Finally, there is the multilepton channel via W, Z, τ and leptonic W decays.
Here there are events in the 3l signal regions are categorized
according to flavor and charge-sign combinations of the leptons
in the event. Appropriate selection criteria to each region are applied
in order to reject lepton-rich background processes while at the same
time maximizing signal significance.  

The main backgrounds are two: the one coming from top quark antiquark production.
Each quark then decay into a W boson and a bottom quark, thus 2 bottom quarks and two Ws.
 If the W is well not reconstructed and it decays leptonically, the final state can be
confused as the 1 lepton bb channel. The other one is the quark-antiquark annichilation
to produce the W boson from the leading interaction in association to jets coming from the
 fragmentation and hadronization of the protons. To estimate these background we cannot
use only the Monte Carlo samples because the modeling of these processes is not precise
and we have to make a fit. We identify different control region with a background through
a software called HistFitter, whose analysis is based on. I leave you int he hands of
Massimiliano, who will clarify this point.


---MASSIMILIANO---

 Our analysis is performed through a software tool called HistFitter. Hist
Fitter is based on ROOT and Roofit libraries and has been used extensively by
the ATLAS Collaboration to analyze big datasets originating from proton-proton
collisions at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. Since 2012 HistFitter has
been the standard statistical tool in searches for supersymmetric particles
performed by ATLAS.
HistFitter is a tool which allows to perform complete analysis by using a
simple configuration file written in Python.
The key idea in how it works is the definition of three regions obtained by
applying selections to a set of kinematic observables:
- first of all we define the signal region: region where a particular model that we want to study (SUSY
  in our case) predicts a significant excess of events over the predicted
background level; note that after the definition we don't work in the Signal
Regions anymore until the end of the analysis, in order to not bias the
result;
- then we define the control region: specifically designed to be basically free of signal
  contamination, here we will perform some fits in order to extimate the
actual composition of the background;
- finally we define the validation region: placed in between the other two
  regions, we use the VR to check if the bkg composition that we obtained by
fitting the model to the data in the CR is the right one.
At the very end of this process we come back to the SR and obtain the results
of the analysis.

Here the analysis flow is shown in more detail: by fitting the model to the data, the observed
event counts in CR are used to normalize background estimates in all regions;
the result goes under the name of "normalized background predictions". These
are then used for extrapolation into the VRs and SRs. You can also see these
"transfer factors" which are the ratios of expected event counts between Sr
and Cr. In particular they allow the observations in the CR to be converted
into bkg estimates inthe Sr.

To begin with the project, we executed a tutorial in HistFitter on real data containing
events about the production of supersimmetry particles along with a lepton (inclusive lepton).
These plots show the results of a simple analysis performed on a control
region, where we force data to match the results of the model we use (SM in
this case). Before the fit, the data do not agree with the prediction. After
the fit, by forcing the data to match the model, we obtain a new distribution
of signal and background. We show the correlation matrix, which shows the
correlation between the variables and that we need to know in order to
properly propagate uncertainties.

Misurare la sensitività di histfitter
Il prossimo passo è quello di fare il fit con i dati veri e attuali di ATLAS

